✅ What Your Code Does
It sends an HTTP GET request to a remote server and prints the response.

📦 Full Workflow Behind the Scenes:
🧱 1. Create HTTP Client

OkHttpClient client = new OkHttpClient();
    This sets up an HTTP client.
    Internally, it:
    Manages a pool of connections.

Sets up caching, timeouts, and dispatcher threads for async calls (even if you're not using them yet).
It's thread-safe, so one instance can be reused for multiple requests.

🌐 2. Define the URL

String url = "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/todos/1";
You’re accessing a mock API (JSONPlaceholder) that returns a todo item in JSON format.

🏗️ 3. Build the HTTP Request

Request request = new Request.Builder()
        .url(url)
        .build();
     You're constructing an HTTP GET request with the specified URL.
     OkHttp builds a complete HTTP request behind the scenes:

-> Method: GET
-> URL
-> Headers (defaults like User-Agent, etc., can be added if needed)

🚀 4. Execute the Request

Response response = client.newCall(request).execute();
This is where the action happens:

A new Call object is created.
It opens a TCP connection (or reuses one from the pool).
Sends the request to the server over the network.
Waits for the server to respond.
Receives the response and parses it into a Response object.

⚠️ This is a blocking call (synchronous). Your thread will wait here until it gets a response or an error.

🔍 5. Check for Errors

if(!response.isSuccessful()){
    System.out.println("Something went wrong !!!");
}
If the HTTP status code is not 200–299, the request failed logically (e.g., 404, 500).

📄 6. Read the Response Body

System.out.println(response.body().string());
.body().string() reads the response body (JSON text in this case) and returns it as a String.

Internally, this:

Reads bytes from the input stream.

Converts them to a UTF-8 string.

Note: You can only read the response body once; it's a one-time stream.

⚠️ 7. Catch Exceptions

 catch(IOException e){
    e.printStackTrace();
}
Handles errors like:
Connection refused
Timeout
Unknown host
Interrupted I/O

🔁 Flow Recap

1. Create client
2. Build GET request
3. Open connection to server
4. Send GET request
5. Wait for server response
6. Read and print response body (JSON)
🔍 Example Output



{
  "userId": 1,
  "id": 1,
  "title": "delectus aut autem",
  "completed": false
}

🧠 TL;DR
You're using OkHttp to synchronously make an HTTP GET request.

Behind the scenes:
Network connection is opened
Request is built and sent
Response is received and parsed
It’s all managed by OkHttp’s efficient request dispatcher, connection pool, and I/O stream handling.
If you want, I can also show you:
How to make this request async
How to parse the JSON response
How to add headers or POST data